#summary ZINBA Installation
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= ZINBA Installation =

Here you will find instructions to install the ZINBA software package into  <a href="http://cran.r-project.org/" >R</a>.  It is assumed that you already have R (>2.10) installed.  Note:  the 'qvalue' package is no longer needed, and the 'R.utils' package is required instead.

== Linux ==
Enter R from the terminal and copy and paste the block of commands below into R to automate the installation process.  If this is your first time installing packages into R, then you may be asked if you want to create a personal R library (select yes).

Download ZINBA and install R dependencies
{{{
system("wget http://zinba.googlecode.com/files/zinba_2.01.tar.gz")
install.packages(c('multicore','doMC','foreach','quantreg','R.utils')) 
}}}
Install the ZINBA R package and load library into R
{{{
install.packages("zinba_2.01.tar.gz", repos=NULL) 
library(zinba)
}}}



== Mac ==
Enter R *from the terminal* and copy and paste the block of commands below into R to automate the installation process.  If this is your first time installing packages into R, then you may be asked if you want to create a personal R library (select yes).  Important: you must run R from the terminal, do not use the R.app GUI as you will experience problems with ZINBA.

Download ZINBA and install R dependencies
{{{
system("curl -O http://zinba.googlecode.com/files/zinba_2.01.tar.gz")
install.packages(c('multicore','doMC','foreach','quantreg','R.utils')) 
}}}
Install the ZINBA R package and load library into R
{{{
install.packages("zinba_2.01.tar.gz", repos=NULL) 
library(zinba)
}}}


Some users have reported problems loading the zinba package after installation.  If this is the case, try installing R from the command line (not within R), using

{{{
R CMD INSTALL zinba_2.01.tar.gz
}}}

If you receive errors during package installation, most likely you need to install [http://r.research.att.com/tools/ Xcode Developer Tools version] (2.4.0 or higher) as your C compiler may be out of date.